Variable Types In Java - WebDriver Tutorials With Java:

Before learning about variable types In java software programming language, I recommend you to read my posts related to variable's  
DATA TYPES, ACCESS MODIFIERS and STATIC AND NON STATIC VARIABLES. As you know, Variable provide us a memory space (based on type and 
size of declared variable) to store a value. There are different three types of variables available In java software development 
language as bellow.

1. Local Variables
Variables which are declared Inside methods or constructor are called as local variables for that method or constructor in java 
software programming language. Variables declared Inside method or constructor are limited for that method or constructor only. 
You can not access to It outside that method or constructor.You can not use access modifiers with local variables because they are 
limited to that method or constructor block only In java software development language.Need to initialize the value of local 
variables before using It because there Is not any default value assigned to local variables.

2. Instance Variables (Non Static)
Instance variables are declared on class level which is parallel to methods or constructors (outside the method or constructor block).
Instance variables are generally used with objects. So they are created and destroyed with object creation and destruction In 
java software development language. Instance(non static) variables are accessible directly by all the non static methods and 
constructors of that class.If you wants to access Instance(non static) variables Inside static method, You needs to create object of 
that class.Instance variables are always Initialized with Its default values based on Its data types. You can access Instance variable 
directly (by Its name) Inside same class. If you wants to access It outside the class then you have to provide object reference with 
variable name. Vast usage of Instance variables in java software programs and selenium webdriver software automation tests.

3. Class Variables (Static)
Same as Instance variables, Class variables are declared on class level (outside the method or constructor block). Only difference Is 
class variables are declared using static keyword. Class variables are used In rare case like when It Is predefined that value of 
variable will never change. In that case we can use class variables. Class variables are created on program start and destroyed on 
program end. Class variables are visible to all methods and constructors of class. Class variables are visible to other class based 
on Its access modifiers. Generally they are public. We can access class variables directly using Its name Inside same class. If you 
wants to access It outside the class then you need to use class name with variable. Bellow given example will give you some Idea 
about all three types of variables. Created two class to show you how to access class variable inside other class. Both these class 
will show you the access levels of all three types of variables.
